FDC3 for Web specification (#1191)
finos/FDC3: docs/api/specs/browserResidentDesktopAgents.md

Upon receiving an incoming Handshake the DA MUST:

1) Create a [MessageChannel](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Channel_Messaging_API)
2) Set up a processing thread to receive and process BCP requests for this connection
3) Respond to the event's `source` window by echoing the nonce and transferring `port2` from the channel

Example WCP negotiation
```JavaScript
window.addEventListener("message", (event) => {
    const { origin, data, source } = event
    const channel = new MessageChannel()
    startBCPProcessing(event, channel) // See next step
    source.postMessage({ nonce: data.nonce }, origin, [channel.port2])
});
```

Alternatively for step 3, a DA MAY return a `url` instead of transferring a MessagePort. When `url` is provided in the response, `getAgent()` will open that `url` in a hidden iframe and initiate another WCP handshake with that frame.

Example WCP negotiation with URL
```JavaScript
window.addEventListener("message", (event) => {
    const { origin, data, source } = event
    source.postMessage({ nonce: data.nonce, url }, origin)
});
```

## Responding to app communications with Desktop Agent Communication Protocol (DACP)

> BCP processing should begin by setting up an inactive connection instance. This instance will become active after the first BCP "WCPValidateAppIdentity" message is received and processed (or deleted if it fails). It is important to remember the WindowProxy (event.source).

Author: DACP and WCP are in there - I need to replace BCP here. Theses specs pages will get reworked this week - they are out of date.

An `instanceUuid` should be established at this point. This will be used in following steps.

```JavaScript

> const startBCPProcessing(event, channel) => {

Reviewer: this reads like we are suggesting that people implement their own da-proxy. However, I'm pretty sure that's not the case as it's solely for use on the web, right?

Author: All needs a rewrite which I'm on this week

1) If the message contains an `instanceUuid` field then the app window might have navigated or refreshed and simply require reconnecting on a previously established instance. The DA SHOULD reestablish the connection if the `instanceUuid`, `appId`, WindowProxy and origin match what is already on record. When a connection is reestablished the DA MUST respond with a valid "WCPValidateAppIdentityResponse" message.

2) If the message does not contain an `instanceUuid`, or the record does not match, then proceed to authenticate the application.

> Note - Apps that call `window.open()` to create new instances of themselves can appear to be their Parent. This is because browsers may clone SessionStorage for newly opened windows. When a child window calls `getAgent()` with the same appId as the parent window, it will appear to the DA that a navigation event occurred on the parent window (because `instanceUuid` will be set, and will appear to match the appId). DAs therefore MUST track the WindowProxy object that is used to establish each connection and use it as an additional comparison criteria.

> Example BCP validation

Author: As I said to you on slack, this page iss not ready for review and will be reworked this week.

The DA MUST validate the app's identity against the application's origin (protocol, domain and port) by positively matching it with either the `details.url` or `details.allowedOrigins` fields in the  _AppD record constructed from the WCPValidateAppIdentity message_.

> Note - The AppD record provided by the app may be different from the one that the DA used to launch the app. This is because a DA may launch apps from its own app directory or even without a directory. However, the responsibility to provide application identity _rests with its publisher_ (the entity that is _hosting_ the app) and hence DA's MUST reference the AppD record that is provided by the application itself for verification. DAs MAY choose to implement _additional_ identity verification procedures (such as comparison with their own configured app directories) and MAY choose to deny access to an application for any reason.

If authentication succeeds then the DA MUST respond with a "WCPValidateAppIdentityResponse" message which MUST include `ImplementationMetadata` (describing the DA), `AppMetadata` (describing the instance), and `DesktopAgentDetails` record (to support reconnecting after window navigation).

> ```JavaScript

Author: will rework this week

1) By a Parent window - This allows DAs to redirect communications to via a hidden iframe that loads a known URL. The main benefit of this approach is that it can allow a system to continue to operate even if the parent window is closed.

2) By a `failover` function - When no parent DA can be found (such as when a tab is opened directly by an end user) then a failover function can create a hidden iframe and return a reference to it (a `WindowProxy`) to initiate communication with via the WCP and DACP in the same way as we do with a parent window. Alternatively, a `DesktopAgent` implementation maybe loaded directly and returned from the failover function, which `getAgent()` will pass-through.

## Channel Selector and Intent Resolver User Interfaces

Channel Selector and Intent Resolver user-interfaces are normally provided by Desktop Agents to applications. However, when running in a web browser a DA may not have the ability to present a channel selector in a window that has been opened with `window.open()` and it may be challenging to display a secondary window over the application when needed (due to pop-up blocking and user preferences).

> The `getAgent()` implementation can facilitate the injection and management of iframes in an application window. An app may use the optional `channelSelector` and `intentResolver` parameters to the `getAgent()` to indicate whether or not they need these interfaces (for example they may not raise intents or may provide their own resolver UI based on the DA API's `findIntent` or `findIntentsForContext` functions so they don't need a DA-provided interface). These parameters are forwarded onto the Desktop Agent in the `WCP1Hello` connection message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `getAgent()` implementation can facilitate the injection and management of iframes in an application window. An app may provide the optional `channelSelector` and `intentResolver` parameters to the `getAgent()` to indicate whether or not they need these interfaces. For example, the apps may not raise intents. Some apps may also resolve intents internally by leveraging the DA' `findIntent` or `findIntentsForContext` API methods. In these situations, the apps won't need a DA-provided interface. Once an app calls `getAgent()`, the parameters the app provides are forwarded onto the Desktop Agent in the `WCP1Hello` connection message.
```

Author: Thanks, tweaked your suggestion and applied it.

---
id: browserDesktopAgents
sidebar_label: Browser Desktop Agents
title: Browser-Resident Desktop Agents (next)
---

> 

Reviewer 3: "must"
Almost all occurrences of the word "must" on this page are capitalized as "MUST". However, if you search you can see there are (I think) 3 occurrences that are just in lower case

Author: I haven't changed every instance (some are not requirements, but more like preconditions or precautions (care _must_ be taken)

Author: fixed in 976af80d5ba8d831e202aabcd37d1a7886e4c930

:::info _[@experimental](../fdc3-compliance#experimental-features)_

Browser Resident Desktop Agents are an experimental feature added to FDC3 in 2.2. Limited aspects of their design may change in future versions and they are exempted from the FDC3 Standard's normal versioning and deprecation polices in order to facilitate any necessary change.

:::

> This document specifies the required behavior for Browser-Resident Desktop Agents (DA). Such agents allow FDC3 applications running directly in a browser to participate in FDC3 interop by way of a `getAgent()` function that is provided by the [`@finos.fdc3` NPM module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@finos/fdc3) and a standardized communication protocol. This approach is in contrast to "Preload DAs" which run on technology that allows the FDC3 interface to be injected (such as Electron, WebView2 or a browser-extension based implementation).

Reviewer 3: I believe "`@finos.fdc3` NPM module" should read "`@finos/fdc3` NPM module"

Author: Fixed in 8c2cdfebfa99d0ac87ba9505f5b56af16e29b53a

This specification only applies to apps running in a browser and therefore assumes use of JavaScript/TypeScript and HTML APIs. Implementations in other languages such as .NET are not covered.

Along with this specification, a new general connection strategy has been established for FDC3 compliant web-applications: FDC3 compliant apps SHOULD make use of `getAgent()` function provided by the [`@finos/fdc3` NPM module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@finos/fdc3) to retrieve their FDC3 interface (an instance of an implementation of the [`DesktopAgent`](../ref/DesktopAgent) interface). Apps that follow these guidelines will be able to interop through either Browser-Resident DAs or [Preload DAs](./preloadDesktopAgents) without code modification. We refer to this concept as Write Once Run Anywhere (WORA).

> 

Reviewer 3: Perhaps consider extending "Apps that follow these guidelines will be able to interop through either Browser-Resident DAs or [Preload DAs](./preloadDesktopAgents) without code modification. We refer to this concept as Write Once Run Anywhere (WORA)." slightly to something that includes the word 'agnostic' e.g. something like:

"Apps that follow these guidelines will be agnostic any specific FDC3 DA implementation and will be able to interop through either Browser-Resident DAs or [Preload DAs](./preloadDesktopAgents) without code modification. We refer to this concept as Write Once Run Anywhere (WORA)."

Author: I've adjusted it to be clearer, but not quite gone with agnostic (which I'm told I over-use). Hows this:

> Apps that follow these guidelines will be able to interop through either Browser-Resident DAs or [Preload DAs](./preloadDesktopAgents) without the inclusion of code or libraries specific to a particular Desktop Agent  vendor or implementation. We refer to this concept as Write Once Run Anywhere (WORA).

Fixed in 8c2cdfebfa99d0ac87ba9505f5b56af16e29b53a

:::info

Prior to FDC3 2.2, only [Preload Desktop Agents](./preloadDesktopAgents) were supported.  

:::

:::note

This document only covers the requirements for _implementors of Browser-Resident DAs_. The `getAgent()` function that applications use to gain access to an fdc3 interface is provided by the [`@finos/fdc3` NPM module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@finos/fdc3). Many behavioral details of `getAgent()` are purposefully omitted from this document in order to reduce the required scope of understanding. Please refer to the [getAgent() specification in the FDC3 Web Connection Protocol](webConnectionProtocol.md) for information on how the client side operates.

:::

:::tip

When referencing "DA" in this document we will hereafter always mean a "Browser-Resident Desktop Agent" - code that runs in a browser page (iframe or window) and which conforms to this specification.

> 

Reviewer 3: It might be worth clarifying exactly what is meant by "in this document" here.  For example, by stating something like "in this Browser-Resident Desktop Agents section" if that was indeed what was meant here.

:::

## Launching apps

> As a prerequisite for running FDC3 in the browser, a DA must first exist as running code in a browser window (See failover functions for an exception to this rule), although that code MAY also connect to or rely on remotely hosted services. We will refer to this window as the "DA Window".

Reviewer 3: Perhaps consider changing "first exist as running code in a browser window" to "first exist as running code in another browser window".

Author: We don't yet have a first window for the DA to be in 'another window'. 

However, I concede that this sentence is not clear. Is this better:

> As a prerequisite for _launching an app via FDC3_ in the browser

Fixed in 8c2cdfebfa99d0ac87ba9505f5b56af16e29b53a

> As the DA typically acts as a launcher for applications, it will often be the case that the DA window is related to the application window(s) in that it may have create the application window with `window.open()` or by creating an iframe and loading the application URL into it. Hence, the DA window may be referred to as a 'parent' (window or frame) of the application frame and the relationship may be used to implement communication between the frames.

Reviewer 3: Change "may have create the application window" to "may have created the application window"

Author: Good spot - I also switch tenses in the middle of that sentence 😱 

Both fixed in 8c2cdfebfa99d0ac87ba9505f5b56af16e29b53a

:::note

It is possible to have multiple DA Windows. For instance, a DA may propagate itself into new windows. Communication and coordination between DA Windows is an implementation detail and is not covered by this specification.

:::

> When an app runs `getAgent()`, it checks for the existence of `window.parent`, `window.opener` and `window.parent.opener` (and will continue up the chain of parent frames, e.g. `window.parent.parent`, `window.parent.parent.opener` until the reference to the next parent is equal to the current one (e.g. `window.parent.parent === window.parent` indicating that the frame does not have a parent). `getAgent()` will then send a standardized `WCP1Hello` message to each parent window or frame reference via [`postMessage`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage) in to discover a DA.

Author: went with 'in order to'

Fixed in 8c2cdfebfa99d0ac87ba9505f5b56af16e29b53a

Hence, apps may be launched:

1. By creating iframes in a DA Window
2. By calling `window.open` from a DA Window
3. By creating iframes in a window that was opened from a DA Window

and the Desktop Agent application will be found in a 'parent' of the application frame.

## Responding to app instance connections - Web Connection Protocol (WCP)

> Browser Resident DAs MUST call `window.addEventListener("message",...)` to receive incoming connection requests from apps, in the form of [`"WCP1Hello"`](https://fdc3.finos.org/schemas/next/api/WCP1Hello.schema.json) messages defined in the [Web Connection Protocol](./webConnectionProtocol).

Reviewer 3: Missing space after comma in window.addEventListener

Author: Fixed in e3ce1dbc8c18624e42dcb5090059cf93daae20e2

The `actualUrl` field may be used for logging and debug purposes by the Desktop Agent and it differing from the `identityUrl` indicates that the application provided an override via `getAgent()`.

Owing to the fact that the different parts of a URL (origin, path, search parameters, anchor) are used differently by web applications, matching of the `identityUrl` to known application URLs can be more complex than a simple string match. To allow application developers control the requirements of matching, Desktop Agents SHOULD consider a URL to match if all elements (origin, path, search parameters, anchor) present in the App Directory record's URL are present in the `identityUrl`. As multiple App Directory records may match a given identity URL, Desktop Agents SHOULD look for the best match that meets the requirements.

> For example, given an identity URL `url`, and an array of App Directory records `appDRecords`, a Desktop Agent MAY implement matching as follows:

Reviewer: I guess this is labelled as MAY.  However, my takeaway from the discussion we had in the Web browsers meeting was that the point of sending the identity URL was that the app would send the URL that was listed in the AppD record.  But then we wouldn't need to do this kind of matching, would we?

Author: When we discussed this the consensus was that we wanted to try and support zero-argument use of getAgent and *any* changes or additions path, search params, or arguments would break an exact match - you and I reconfirmed that in some github comments a few days ago. 
However, if there's no possible fuzziness to the URL match then the identityUrl should probably become a required argument.

But as you say, this is down as a MAY, so it's allowed, but not even recommended (SHOULD) currently. I think it's something we should try out in practice, get feedback on and refine in a subsequent version (when or before we remove the @experimental label from this).

Personally, I still think a tighter link to a specific appD record would be better and necessary for future security/auth recommendations (likely based on async encryption). If we do that it would have to come with some sort of API call or challenge to provide a signed token, that could include identifying where the (appD) record is that contains the public key.  Its also likely to need more work on and adoption of the appD standard.

  - Note that the `pagehide` event may not fire if the window's render thread crashes or is closed while 'frozen'.
- By polling the application for responses via the `heartbeatEvent` and `heartbeatAcknowledgement` messages provided in the [Desktop Agent Communication Protocol](./desktopAgentCommunicationProtocol#checking-apps-are-alive). These message may be used for both periodic and on-demand polling by DA implementations. On-demand polling could, for example, be used to check that all instances returned in a findIntent response or displayed in an intent resolver are still alive.
  - Desktop Agents MAY determine their own timeout, or support configuration, to be used for considering an application to have closed as this may be affected by the implementation details of app and DAs.

> Finally, Desktop Agents SHOULD retain instance details for applications that have closed as they may appear to close during navigation events, or may navigate away and then navigate back. By retaining the instance data (`instanceId`, `instanceUuid` and `WindowProxy`) the same instance identity can be maintained or reissued. There is no standard length of time that such details should be retained, hance, Desktop Agents MAY determine for themselves how long to retain instance details for closed instances.

Reviewer 4: I guess `hance` is supposed to be `hence`

Author: fixed

## Responding to app communications with Desktop Agent Communication Protocol (DACP)

After validating an application's identity and any instance identity to be reused, the Desktop Agent is ready to support communication with the application. This is achieved via the [Desktop Agent Communication Protocol](./desktopAgentCommunicationProtocol) (DACP) over the `MessageChannel` established in the previous steps.

## Implementing DAs in hidden iframes

As described above, DA providers can leverage hidden iframes to establish a communication mechanism that is independent of a Parent window. This approach allows apps to connect to a DA even when they were not opened by that DA.

The hidden iframe url can be provided in two ways:

1. By a Parent window - This allows DAs to redirect communications to via a hidden iframe that loads a known URL. The main benefit of this approach is that it can allow a system to continue to operate even if the parent window is closed.

> 2. By a `failover` function - When no parent DA can be found (such as when a tab is opened directly by an end user) then a failover function can create a hidden iframe and return a reference to it (a `WindowProxy`) to initiate communication with via the WCP and DACP in the same way as we do with a parent window. Alternatively, a `DesktopAgent` implementation maybe loaded directly and returned from the failover function, which `getAgent()` will pass-through.

Reviewer 4: `to initiate communication with via the WCP` seems wrong to me (feel free to ignore if this is intended. I think this should either be to `initiate communication via the WCP` or to `initiate communication with the WCP`

Reviewer 4: also -
```
 a `DesktopAgent` implementation maybe loaded
```
=> 
```
 a `DesktopAgent` implementation may be loaded
```

again - feel free to ignore. English not good mine is.

Author: redrafted as:
>...and return a reference to it (a `WindowProxy`) that is used to initiate communication via the WCP in the same way as we do with a parent window or frame.

## Channel Selector and Intent Resolver User Interfaces

Channel Selector and Intent Resolver user-interfaces are normally provided by Desktop Agents to applications. However, when running in a web browser, a DA may not have the ability to present a channel selector in a window that has been opened with `window.open()`, and it may be challenging to display a secondary window over the application when needed (due to pop-up blocking and user preferences).

The `getAgent()` implementation can facilitate the injection and management of iframes in an application window. An app may provide the optional `channelSelector` and `intentResolver` parameters to the `getAgent()` to indicate whether or not they need these interfaces. For example, the apps may not raise intents. Some apps may also resolve intents internally by leveraging the Desktop Agent's `findIntent` or `findIntentsForContext` API functions. In these situations, the apps won't need a DA-provided interface. Once an app calls `getAgent()`, the parameters that the app provides are forwarded onto the Desktop Agent in the `WCP1Hello` connection message.

> Desktop Agents may implement their own user interfaces for channel selection and intent resolution. The URL for each interface may be returned in the `channelSelectorUrl` and `intentResolverUrl` properties of the payload of the `WCP3Handshake` message sent by the DA during the connection sequence. Alternatively, if the Desktop Agent is be able to provide these user interfaces by other means (for example DAs that render applications in iframes within a window they control may use other iframes to render these UIs) or if they app indicated that it did not need them then `channelSelectorUrl` and `intentResolverUrl` may be set to `false`. Finally, `channelSelectorUrl` and `intentResolverUrl` may be set to `true` to indicate that `getAgent()` should use the default reference implementations of these UIs provided via the <https://fdc3.finsos.org> website.

Reviewer 4: `if the Desktop Agent is be able to provide` => `if the Desktop Agent is able to provide`

Author: fixed - I'm gonna start blaming COVID brain for some of these  :-p

:::

:::tip

When referencing "DA" in the subsequent sections of this document we will hereafter always mean a "Browser-Resident Desktop Agent" - code that runs in a browser page (iframe or window) and which conforms to this specification.

:::

## Launching apps

As a prerequisite for launching an app via FDC3 in the browser, a DA must first exist as running code in a browser window (See failover functions for an exception to this rule), although that code MAY also connect to or rely on remotely hosted services. We will refer to this window as the "DA Window".

> As the DA typically acts as a launcher for applications, it will often be the case that the DA window is related to the application window(s) in that it may have created the application window with `window.open()` or have created an iframe and loaded the application URL into it. Hence, the DA window may be referred to as a 'parent' (window or frame) of the application frame and the relationship may be used to implement communication between the frames.

Author: Not sure that capitalisation is warranted on these...

2. By calling `window.open` from a DA Window
3. By creating iframes in a window that was opened from a DA Window

and the Desktop Agent application will be found in a 'parent' of the application frame.

## Responding to app instance connections - Web Connection Protocol (WCP)

Browser Resident DAs MUST call `window.addEventListener("message", ...)` to receive incoming connection requests from apps, in the form of [`"WCP1Hello"`](https://fdc3.finos.org/schemas/next/api/WCP1Hello.schema.json) messages defined in the [Web Connection Protocol](./webConnectionProtocol).

Upon receiving an incoming [`"WCP1Hello"`](https://fdc3.finos.org/schemas/next/api/WCP1Hello.schema.json) the Desktop Agent MUST either:

1. Respond with a [`WCP2LoadUrl`](https://fdc3.finos.org/schemas/next/api/WCP2LoadUrl.schema.json) message (as defined in the [Web Connection Protocol](./webConnectionProtocol)).
    - This message indicates that `getAgent()` should create an iframe, load the provided URL (for an adaptor to the Desktop Agent) into it and then restart the connection process by sending [`"WCP1Hello"`](https://fdc3.finos.org/schemas/next/api/WCP1Hello.schema.json) to the iframe.

    :::warning

>     The [Content-Security-Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy) directives [frame-src](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/frame-src), [child-src](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/child-src) and [default-src](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/default-src) can prevent iframes injected into an application from loading content. Where these are used in app implementations, please advise app implementors to include domains from which the adaptor content is served.

Author: applied

>     The [Content-Security-Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy) directives [frame-src](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/frame-src), [child-src](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/child-src) and [default-src](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/default-src) can prevent iframes injected into an application from loading content. Where these are used in app implementations, please advise app implementors to include domains from which the adaptor content is served.

Author: applied

App identity is validated and an `appId` assigned by matching the application to an AppD record already known to the Desktop Agent. This is achieved by matching  `identityUrl` (supplied by the application via the `getAgent()` implementation) to the `details.url` field of the known App Directory records.

> As web applications may vary their URL during use, or serve multiple applications from the same origin (differentiated by path, search params and/or hash), care must be taken in matching URLs to appD records. Two URLs are sent to the Desktop Agent in the [`"WCP4ValidateAppIdentity"`](https://fdc3.finos.org/schemas/next/api/WCP4ValidateAppIdentity.schema.json) message:

Author: applied

> - `identityUrl`: the URL to match to the app directory record.

Author: applied

For example, given an identity URL `url`, and an array of App Directory records `appDRecords`, a Desktop Agent MAY implement matching as follows:

```js
/** Return the AppD record whose URL best matches the input URL or `null` if no
 *  match is found. To be considered a match all elements of the AppD URL 
 *  (origin, path, searchParams and hash) MUST be found in the input URL.
 *  The best match is the AppD URL that contains the most elements from the
 *  input URL.
 */  
let matchUrlToAppD = (url, appDRecords) => {
    //parse the URL
    const inputUrl = new URL(url);

    //fn to trim trailing / from paths
    const trimTrailingSlash = (path) => {
        if (path.endsWith("/")) {
            const out = path.slice(0, -1);
            //return null if it was just a /
            return out === "" ? null : out;
        } else {
            return path;
        }
    };
                               
    const matchScores = [];

>     //score appD records based on the match of their URL to the input URL

Author: fixed everywhere in this file except code examples

>     //score appD records based on the match of their URL to the input URL

Author: applied

    // if any component of the appD record URL is missing from input URL, 

>     // score 0 otherwise count the number of input elements matched.

Author: I don;t think I understood this comment fully, but I've adjusted the line break and capitalized AppD.

    appDRecords.map((record) => {
        //record must contain a URL
        if (!record.details?.url) { return; }
        
        //parse record URL
        const parsedUrl = new URL(record.details.url);
        
        //origin of URL must match record
        if (parsedUrl.origin !== inputUrl.origin) { return; }
        let score = 1;
        

>         //path must match if present in appD record - Path of "/" is ignored

Author: applied

:::warning

Apps launched via a call to `window.open()` from a window or app instance on the same origin can appear to be the original window. This is because browsers may clone SessionStorage for newly opened windows. When a child window calls `getAgent()` with the same `appId`, `instanceId` and `instanceUuid` as the parent window, it will appear to the DA that a navigation event occurred on the parent window. DAs therefore MUST also compare the `WindowProxy` object that is used to establish each connection to differentiate such cloned instances. If the WindowProxy objects do not match, then a new `instanceId` and `instanceUuid` MUST be assigned.

:::

For more details on the connection process, please see the documentation for the [Web Connection Protocol](./webConnectionProtocol).

### Disconnects

> DAs are responsible for tracking when app windows close or navigates, which is necessary to provide accurate responses to the `findIntent`, `findIntentsByContext` & `findInstances` API calls, and to correctly resolve raised intents.

Author: applied

## Responding to app communications with Desktop Agent Communication Protocol (DACP)

After validating an application's identity and any instance identity to be reused, the Desktop Agent is ready to support communication with the application. This is achieved via the [Desktop Agent Communication Protocol](./desktopAgentCommunicationProtocol) (DACP) over the `MessageChannel` established in the previous steps.

## Implementing DAs in hidden iframes

As described above, DA providers can leverage hidden iframes to establish a communication mechanism that is independent of a parent window or frame. This approach allows apps to reconnect to a DA even when the parent window or frame has closed, or to connect a DA they've started themselves via a `failover` function.

The hidden iframe URL can be provided in two ways:

> 1. By a Parent window or frame - This allows DAs to handle communication via a hidden iframe that loads a known URL. The main benefit of this approach is that it can allow a system to continue to operate even if the parent window or frame is closed.

Author: should not be capitalized, applied

## Channel Selector and Intent Resolver User Interfaces

Channel Selector and Intent Resolver user-interfaces are normally provided by Desktop Agents to applications. However, when running in a web browser, a DA may not have the ability to present a channel selector in a window that has been opened with `window.open()`, and it may be challenging to display a secondary window over the application when needed (due to pop-up blocking and user preferences).

The `getAgent()` implementation can facilitate the injection and management of iframes in an application window. An app may provide the optional `channelSelector` and `intentResolver` parameters to the `getAgent()` to indicate whether or not they need these interfaces. For example, the apps may not raise intents. Some apps may also resolve intents internally by leveraging the Desktop Agent's `findIntent` or `findIntentsForContext` API functions. In these situations, the apps won't need a DA-provided interface. Once an app calls `getAgent()`, the parameters that the app provides are forwarded onto the Desktop Agent in the `WCP1Hello` connection message.

> Desktop Agents may implement their own user interfaces for channel selection and intent resolution. The URL for each interface may be returned in the `channelSelectorUrl` and `intentResolverUrl` properties of the payload of the `WCP3Handshake` message sent by the DA during the connection sequence. Alternatively, if the Desktop Agent is able to provide these user interfaces by other means (for example DAs that render applications in iframes within a window they control may use other iframes to render these UIs) or if they app indicated that it did not need them then `channelSelectorUrl` and `intentResolverUrl` may be set to `false`. Finally, `channelSelectorUrl` and `intentResolverUrl` may be set to `true` to indicate that `getAgent()` should use the default reference implementations of these UIs provided via the <https://fdc3.finsos.org> website.

Author: There is a little on this at https://fdc3.finos.org/docs/fdc3-compliance, where capitalized these keywords indicate requirement levels. This is a reasonable place for one of these to be used - applied. There are in fact 3 cases in this line!

:::

User interface iframes are initially injected into the application window with CSS that prevents their display:

```css
{
    width: "0";
    height: "0";
    position: "fixed";
}
```

and are always displayed with `position: "fixed"` so that they are not part of the document flow.

Implementations of the UIs may then indicate a limited set of CSS to apply to their frame in the initial `Fdc3UserInterfaceHello` message (when the width and height will be removed if not explicitly set in that message), and later adjust that via `Fdc3UserInterfaceRestyle`. See the [Controlling injected User Interfaces section](./desktopAgentCommunicationProtocol#controlling-injected-user-interfaces-section) in the DACP specification for more details.

> Communication between the `DesktopAgentProxy` and the iframes it injects is achieved via a similar mechanism to that used for communication between an App and the Desktop Agent: a `MessageChannel` is established between the app and iframe, via a `postMessage` sent from the iframe (`Fdc3UserInterfaceHello`) and responded to by the `DesktopAgentProxy` in the app's window (`Fdc3UserInterfaceHandshake`), with a `MessagePort` from a `MessageChannel` appended.

Author: applied
